Assignment for Data recommendation and visualization in Tableau! 

https://public.tableau.com/shared/PNGJZMMND?:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link

Introduction: 
My name is Marek Bem, and today I will present my Recommendations and smart goal. I believe these are necessary in order to bring ideal business process changes for the company and help to improve its product. 
1. I would like to focus on the Geographical spread of the customer. In order to find out where to focus your marketing efforts and try to increase sales. 
The USA has the highest amount of Dognition customers in the world and we are going in this area. 
California is the state with the highest population of users. 
CA, NC, NY, TX, FL - in these states we should continue to focus on promoting the product, however, in my opinion, marketing efforts should be increased in less popular areas. 

Viz 1.


2. Check when users are most Active ? 
- Hour: At 7pm Dognition customers play the most amount of games
- Day: On Sunday Customers play the most Dognition Games
- Month: Month in the data set where the most tests were completed: October 2014
Comment: What Happened in October 2014? Dognition was featured on "60 minutes" in Oct 2014. This reveals Publicity did have an effect on
increasing user participation levels.
From this data, we can begin to create a strategy to use targeted reminders. Since we know when and where customers tend to play the games. however, for the strategy to be complete, we still need to explore drop-off rates. To have a complete picture of user behavior we need data that tells us the story behind low participation levels.

Viz 2. 

3.  Finally we will analyze graphs in order to get insight into user behavior during the personality test. 
Subcategories & Drop off rates: Eye Contact is the game where most dogs dropped off
There are five colors, meanings that there are five subcategories in the 20-question assessment. In general, there is a decrease when going from one subcategory to another subcategory. This overall trend reveals that users generally drop after completing a subcategory. this might suggest that it's challenging for dog owners to keep their pets engaged to complete another subcategory, so the owner becomes discouraged from continuing on with the test. Also perhaps dogs have low attention spans, therefore, they might need a break before moving on to a new subcategory.

Viz 3. 


Recommendation: Dognition Business Process Changes 
1) Implement Achievements 
To  create a badge system: A programme to earn points, organize groups of competitions and tournaments where you can win interesting prizes such as discounts on dog products, etc.
2) Send out targeted Reminders 
For reminders to be affected it's critical to send them out during times when engagement drops the most especially. Also during times when users are less active and push them to play with dogs. 
3) Use Social media as an alternative to the free start promotion.
Since free start was not effective I propose the Dognition team instead Post actively on Instagram, and Facebook content with interesting tips, facts, or some cute pictures of dogs. Especially during the following days: Friday through Monday. 
